Document new ABI features (#400)
algorand/pyteal: docs/abi.rst

.. _abi:

ABI Support
===========

TODO: brief description

.. warning::
  ABI support is still taking shape and is subject to backwards incompatible changes.
    * Based on feedback, the API and usage patterns are likely to change.
    * For the following use cases, feel encouraged to rely on abstractions.  Expect a best-effort attempt to minimize backwards incompatible changes along with a migration path.

       * :any:`ABIReturnSubroutine` usage for ABI Application entry point definition.

       * :any:`Router` usage for defining how to route program invocations.
    * For general purpose :any:`Subroutine` definition usage, use at your own risk.  Based on feedback, the API and usage patterns will change more freely and with less effort to provide migration paths.

TODO: warning about how ABI types are intended to be used at the moment (for standard serialization at the incoming and outgoing layers of contract) - internal use may be extremely inefficient with ABI types
TODO: warning about how internal representation of ABI types may change over time

Types
------

> The ABI supports a variety of types whose encodings are standardized.

Reviewer: "data types" perhaps?

Fundamentals
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Before we introduce these ABI types, it's important to understand the fundamentals of how PyTeal's ABI type system works.

Reviewer: the way this is worded ("it's important" without an actual reason) makes me think I can skip this section, but in reality I shouldn't. Maybe something like "We first explain the fundamentals of PyTeal's ABI type system, which includes behavior common to all ABI types."

:code:`abi.BaseType`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:any:`abi.BaseType` is an abstract base class that all ABI type classes inherit from. This class defines a few methods common to all ABI types:

* :any:`abi.BaseType.decode()` is used to decode and populate a type's value from an encoded byte string.
* :any:`abi.BaseType.encode()` is used to encode a type's value into an encoded byte string.
* :any:`abi.BaseType.type_spec()` is used to get an instance of :any:`abi.TypeSpec` that describes that type.

:code:`abi.TypeSpec`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:any:`abi.TypeSpec` is an abstract base class used to describe ABI types. Every child class of :code:`abi.BaseType` also has a companion :code:`abi.TypeSpec` child class. The :code:`abi.TypeSpec` class has a few methods that return information about the type it represents, but one of the class's most important features is the method :any:`abi.TypeSpec.new_instance()`, which creates and returns a new :any:`abi.BaseType` instance of the ABI type it represents.

Static vs Dynamic Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An important property of an ABI type is whether it is static or dynamic.

> Static types are defined as types whose encoded length does not depend on the value of that type. This property allows encoding and decoding of static types to be more efficient.

Reviewer: perhaps you could add "(for example: a boolean)" and "(for example: a string)" to exemplify what is meant in the section.

Likewise, dynamic types are defined as types whose encoded length does in fact depend on the value that type has. Due to this dependency, the code that PyTeal generates to encode, decode, and manipulate dynamic types is more complex and generally less efficient than the code needed for static types.

Because of the difference in complexity and efficiency when working with static and dynamic types, **we strongly recommend using static types over dynamic types whenever possible**.

Instantiating Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> There are a few ways to create an instance of an ABI type. Each method produces the same result, but some may be more convenient than others.

Reviewer: I suggest removing ", but some may be more convenient than others." which doesn't really add anything imo.

With the Constructor
""""""""""""""""""""""

The most obvious way is to use its constructor, like so:

.. code-block:: python

    myUint8 = abi.Uint8()
    myUint64 = abi.Uint64()
    myArrayOf12Uint8s = abi.StaticArray(abi.StaticArrayTypeSpec(abi.Uint8TypeSpec(), 12))

For simple types, using the constructor is straightforward and works as you would expect. However, more complex types like :any:`abi.StaticArray` have type-level arguments, so their constructor must take an :any:`abi.TypeSpec` which fully defines all necessary arguments. These types can be created with a constructor, but it's often not the most convenient way to do so.

With an :code:`abi.TypeSpec` Instance
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> You may remember that :code:`abi.TypeSpec` has a :any:`new_instance() <abi.TypeSpec.new_instance>` method that can be used to instantiate ABI types. This is another way of instantiating ABI types, if you happen to have an :code:`abi.TypeSpec` instance available. For example:

Reviewer: could remove "happen to"

.. code-block:: python

    myUintType = abi.Uint8TypeSpec()
    myUint8 = myUintType.new_instance()

    myArrayType = abi.StaticArrayTypeSpec(myUintType, 12)
    myArrayOf12Uint8s = myArrayType.new_instance()

> With :code:`abi.make`

Reviewer: I agree this syntax is more readable. I don't see an obvious way to solve this, but in reality I was annoyed that you made me read the previous section-and-a-half before telling me the nicest way to instantiate a complex type. 

I wonder if a short "tl;dr" section at the top of this document that literally just shows the right examples would be useful for the lazies of the world. Not saying it's a good idea, just thinking.

"""""""""""""""""""""

Using :code:`abi.TypeSpec.new_instance()` makes sense if you already have an instance of the right :code:`abi.TypeSpec`, but otherwise it's not much better than using the constructor. Because of this, we have the :any:`abi.make` method, which is perhaps the most convenient way to create a complex type.

To use it, you pass in a Python type annotation that describes the ABI type, and :code:`abi.make` will create an instance of it for you. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    from typing import Literal

    myUint8 = abi.make(abi.Uint8)
    myUint64 = abi.make(abi.Uint64)
    myArrayOf12Uint8s = abi.make(abi.StaticArray[abi.Uint8, Literal[12]])

.. note::
    Since Python does not allow integers to be directly embedded in type annotations, you must wrap any integer arguments in the :code:`Literal` annotation from the :code:`typing` module.

Categories
~~~~~~~~~~

There are three categories of ABI types:

1. Basic types
2. Reference types
3. Transaction types

Each of which is described in detail in the following subsections.

Basic Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Basic types are the most straightforward category of ABI types. These types are used to hold values and they have no other side effects, in contrast to the other categories of types.

Reviewer: suggestion: "side effects" -> "properties" (or something other than "side effects" which has a negative connotation and feels imprecise)

:any:`abi.Uint32`                              :code:`uint32`         Static                            A 32-bit unsigned integer
:any:`abi.Uint64`                              :code:`uint64`         Static                            A 64-bit unsigned integer
:any:`abi.Bool`                                :code:`bool`           Static                            A boolean value that can be either 0 or 1
:any:`abi.Byte`                                :code:`byte`           Static                            An 8-bit unsigned integer. This is an alias for :code:`abi.Uint8` that should be used to indicate non-numeric data, such as binary arrays.
:any:`abi.StaticArray[T,N] <abi.StaticArray>`  :code:`T[N]`           Static if :code:`T` is static     A fixed-length array of :code:`T` with :code:`N` elements
:any:`abi.Address`                             :code:`address`        Static                            A 32-byte Algorand address. This is an alias for :code:`abi.StaticArray[abi.Byte, Literal[32]]`.
:any:`abi.DynamicArray[T] <abi.DynamicArray>`  :code:`T[]`            Dynamic                           A variable-length array of :code:`T`

> :any:`abi.String`                              :code:`string`         Dynamic                           A variable-length byte array assumed to contain UTF-8 encoded content. This is an alias for :code:`abi.DynamicArray[abi.Byte]`.

Reviewer: but is there any behavior behind the "assumed"? i.e. will it throw up an error if it's not UTF-8

> :any:`abi.Tuple`\*                             :code:`(...)`          Static if all elements are static A tuple of multiple types

Reviewer: perhaps "if and only if"

    * :any:`abi.Tuple1[T1] <abi.Tuple1>`: a tuple of one value, :code:`(T1)`
    * :any:`abi.Tuple2[T1,T2] <abi.Tuple2>`: a tuple of two values, :code:`(T1,T2)`
    * :any:`abi.Tuple3[T1,T2,T3] <abi.Tuple3>`: a tuple of three values, :code:`(T1,T2,T3)`
    * :any:`abi.Tuple4[T1,T2,T3,T4] <abi.Tuple4>`: a tuple of four values, :code:`(T1,T2,T3,T4)`
    * :any:`abi.Tuple5[T1,T2,T3,T4,T5] <abi.Tuple5>`: a tuple of five values, :code:`(T1,T2,T3,T4,T5)`

These ARC-4 types are not yet supported in PyTeal:

* Non-power-of-2 unsigned integers under 64 bits, i.e. :code:`uint24`, :code:`uint48`, :code:`uint56`
* Unsigned integers larger than 64 bits
* Fixed point unsigned integers, i.e. :code:`ufixed<N>x<M>`

Usage
"""""""""""""""""""""

Setting Values
''''''''''''''''

All basic types have a :code:`set()` method which can be used to assign a value. The arguments for this method differ depending on the ABI type. For convenience, here are links to the docs for each class's method:

* :any:`abi.Uint.set()`, which is used by all :code:`abi.Uint` classes and :code:`abi.Byte`
* :any:`abi.Bool.set()`
* :any:`abi.StaticArray.set()`
* :any:`abi.Address.set()`
* :any:`abi.DynamicArray.set()`

> * :any:`abi.String.set()`

Reviewer: I take it this is _not_ the same as the DynamicArray set method? (unlike the correspondence for Byte using the Uint one)

* :any:`abi.Tuple.set()`

A brief example is below. Please consult the documentation linked above for each method to learn more about specific usage and behavior.

.. code-block:: python

    myAddress = abi.make(abi.Address)
    myBool = abi.make(abi.Bool)
    myUint64 = abi.make(abi.Uint64)
    myTuple = abi.make(abi.Tuple3[abi.Address, abi.Bool, abi.Uint64])

    program = Seq(
        myAddress.set(Txn.sender()),
        myBool.set(Txn.fee() == Int(0)),

>         myUint64.set(5000),

Reviewer: I'm surely wrong because I know nothing and am just pattern matching, but in case I'm not - should this be "Int(5000)"?

        myTuple.set(myAddress, myBool, myUint64)
    )

> Getting Values

Reviewer: maybe could title it "Getting Single Values"? I was confused at first why the list was missing some items then I had to read more closely

* :any:`abi.Bool.get()`
* :any:`abi.Address.get()`
* :any:`abi.String.get()`

A brief example is below. Please consult the documentation linked above for each method to learn more about specific usage and behavior.

.. code-block:: python

    @Subroutine(TealType.uint64)
    def minimum(a: abi.Uint64, b: abi.Uint64) -> Expr:
        """Return the minimum value of the two arguments."""
        return (
            If(a.get() < b.get())
            .Then(a.get())
            .Else(b.get())
        )

Getting Values at Indexes
''''''''''''''''''''''''''

The types :code:`abi.StaticArray`, :code:`abi.Address`, :code:`abi.DynamicArray`, :code:`abi.String`, and :code:`abi.Tuple` are compound types, meaning they contain other types whose values can be extracted. The :code:`__getitem__` method, accessible by using square brackets to "index into" an object, can be used to extract these values.

The supported methods are:

* :any:`abi.StaticArray.__getitem__`, used for :code:`abi.StaticArray` and :code:`abi.Address`
* :any:`abi.Array.__getitem__`, used for :code:`abi.DynamicArray` and :code:`abi.String`
* :any:`abi.Tuple.__getitem__`

> Be aware that these methods return a :code:`ComputedValue`, TODO link to Computed Value section

Reviewer: I'm sure there's a good reason for this, but as a user it's unintuitive that it wouldn't just return a value of the type in the array/tuple. So good callout, and I suggest we give a brief explanation for why this is the case

A brief example is below. Please consult the documentation linked above for each method to learn more about specific usage and behavior.

.. code-block:: python

    @Subroutine(TealType.none)

>     def ensure_all_values_greater_than_5(array: abi.StaticArray[abi.Uint64, L[10]]) -> Expr:

Reviewer: L[10] is the same as Literal[10]?

Reviewer 2: yes, I think if we declare `from typing import Literal as L`, then this is the code snippet you are suggesting.

        """This subroutine asserts that every value in the input array is greater than 5."""
        i = ScratchVar(TealType.uint64)
        return For(
            i.store(Int(0)), i.load() < array.length(), i.store(i.load() + Int(1))
        ).Do(
            array[i.load()].use(lambda value: Assert(value.get() > Int(5)))
        )

Limitations
"""""""""""""""""""""

TODO: explain type size limitations

Reference Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Some AVM operations require specific values to be placed in the "foreign arrays" of the app call transaction. Reference types allow methods to describe these requirements.

Reviewer: I suggest giving the reader just a little more here, something like (not in love with how I wrote it, but as an example): 

Many applications require the caller to specify "foreign arrays" when calling the app. These are the blockchain entities (such as accounts, assets, or other applications) that the application will interact with when executing this call. In the ABI, these are called "reference types". Reference types allow methods to describe these requirements.

> Reference types are only valid in the arguments of a method. They may not appear in a method's return value in any form.

Reviewer: perhaps remove "in any form"

Reviewer: (I'm not sure if you had something in mind that you think people might try to do)

Definitions
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

PyTeal supports the following reference types:

====================== ====================== ================ =======================================================================================================================================================
PyTeal Type            ARC-4 Type             Dynamic / Static Description
====================== ====================== ================ =======================================================================================================================================================

> :any:`abi.Account`     :code:`account`        Static           Represents an additional account that the current transaction can access, stored in the :any:`Txn.accounts <TxnObject.accounts>` array

Reviewer: I think the word "additional" is potentially confusing here - additional to what? If you mean in addition to the app's account, then maybe it makes sense, but then I would at least remove it from the assets line.

====================== ====================== ================ =======================================================================================================================================================

These types all inherit from the abstract class :any:`abi.ReferenceType`.

Usage
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Getting Referenced Indexes
''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Because reference types represent values placed into one of the transaction's foreign arrays, each reference type value is associated with a specific index into the appropriate array.

All reference types implement the method :any:`abi.ReferenceType.referenced_index()` which can be used to access this index.

A brief example is below:

.. code-block:: python

    @Subroutine(TealType.none)
    def referenced_index_example(
        account: abi.Account, asset: abi.Asset, app: abi.Application
    ) -> Expr:
        return Seq(
            # The accounts array has Txn.accounts.length() + 1 elements in it (the +1 is the txn sender)

>             Assert(account.referenced_index() <= Txn.accounts.length()),

Reviewer: it took me a few minutes to understand how `referenced_index()` works, still a bit confused maybe about what the point of it is

Reviewer: ok, so this example method requires an account reference, an asset reference, and an app reference as arguments. 

These aren't all at index 0, though, because for accounts and apps there's a default at index 0. 

The comment "The accounts array has Txn.accounts.length() + 1 elements in it" - you're saying the length() method is implemented to actually not give what you'd expect, which is the length of that array, but rather the length of the args put in that array? 

In short: I think you should add a little more explanation and comments here because it feels pretty counterintuitive.  And maybe the example could have 2 args of one of the arrays to help understand.

''''''''''''''''''''''''

Similar to the parameters above, asset holding properties can be accessed using one of the following methods:

* :any:`abi.Account.asset_holding()`: given an asset, returns an :any:`AssetHoldingObject`
* :any:`abi.Asset.holding()`: given an account, returns an :any:`AssetHoldingObject`

These method are provided for convenience. They expose the same properties accessible from the :any:`AssetHolding` class.

A brief example is below:

.. code-block:: python

    @Subroutine(TealType.none)
    def ensure_asset_balance_is_nonzero(account: abi.Account, asset: abi.Asset) -> Expr:
        return Seq(
            account.asset_holding(asset)
            .balance()
            .outputReducer(lambda value, has_value: Assert(And(has_value, value > Int(0)))),
            # this check is equivalent
            asset.holding(account)
            .balance()
            .outputReducer(lambda value, has_value: Assert(And(has_value, value > Int(0)))),
        )

Limitations
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

TODO: explain limitations, such as can't be created directly, or used as method return value

Transaction Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Some application calls require that they are invoked as part of a larger transaction group containing specific additional transactions. In order to express these types of calls, the ABI has transaction types.

Reviewer: I was thinking about this in the Reference Types section as well, but would you consider capitalizing "Reference Types" and "Transaction Types"? I'm not sure myself, but it feels like lower case is a little harder to parse - it is that the ABI has transaction _types_, or that the ABI has _transaction_ types, or that the ABI has _transaction types_? Since these are both such common words in our day to day, it might be worth capitalizing.

> Every transaction type argument represents a specific, unique, transaction that must appear immediately before the application call.

Reviewer: suggest: "specific and unique transaction". 

Also, with respect to "that must appear immediately before the application call": "immediately before" in what context (in the transaction group, I assume)? 
The way you phrased this suggests that there can only be one Transaction Type per app call, but I don't think that's true, so maybe worth rephrasing somehow.

.. code-block:: python

    myUintType = abi.Uint8TypeSpec()
    myUint8 = myUintType.new_instance()

    myArrayType = abi.StaticArrayTypeSpec(myUintType, 12)
    myArrayOf12Uint8s = myArrayType.new_instance()

With :code:`abi.make`
"""""""""""""""""""""

Using :code:`abi.TypeSpec.new_instance()` makes sense if you already have an instance of the right :code:`abi.TypeSpec`, but otherwise it's not much better than using the constructor. Because of this, we have the :any:`abi.make` method, which is perhaps the most convenient way to create a complex type.

To use it, you pass in a Python type annotation that describes the ABI type, and :code:`abi.make` will create an instance of it for you. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    from typing import Literal

    myUint8 = abi.make(abi.Uint8)
    myUint64 = abi.make(abi.Uint64)
    myArrayOf12Uint8s = abi.make(abi.StaticArray[abi.Uint8, Literal[12]])

.. note::
    Since Python does not allow integers to be directly embedded in type annotations, you must wrap any integer arguments in the :code:`Literal` annotation from the :code:`typing` module.

Computed Values
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> With the introduction of ABI types, it's only natural for there to be functions and operations which return ABI values. In a conventional language, it would be enough to return an instance of the ABI type directly from the operation, as usual. However, in PyTeal, there operations must actually return two things:

Reviewer 3: @jasonpaulos Few _suggestions_ here:
* Remove _there_ - I think it's a typo.  Possibly, another phrasing was intended.
* Optionally, I'd opt for a more specific term (values) rather than _things_.

```suggestion
With the introduction of ABI types, it's only natural for there to be functions and operations which return ABI values. In a conventional language, it would be enough to return an instance of the ABI type directly from the operation, as usual. However, in PyTeal, operations must actually return two values:
```

For example, the :any:`abi.Tuple.__getitem__` function does not return an :any:`abi.BaseType`; instead, it returns an :code:`abi.TupleElement[abi.BaseType]` instance, which inherits from :code:`abi.ComputedValue[abi.BaseType]`.

The :any:`abi.ComputedValue[T] <abi.ComputedValue>` abstract base class provides the following methods:

* :any:`abi.ComputedValue[T].produced_type_spec() <abi.ComputedValue.produced_type_spec>`: returns the :any:`abi.TypeSpec` representing the ABI type produced by this object.
* :any:`abi.ComputedValue[T].store_into(output: T) <abi.ComputedValue.store_into>`: computes the value and store it into the ABI type instance :code:`output`.
* :any:`abi.ComputedValue[T].use(action: Callable[[T], Expr]) -> Expr <abi.ComputedValue.use>`: computes the value and passes it to the callable expression :code:`action`. This is offered as a convenience over the :code:`store_into(...)` method if you don't want to create a new variable to store the value before using it.

.. note::

>     If you call the methods :code:`store_into(...)` or :code:`use(...)` multiple times, the computation to determine the value will be repeated each time. For this reason, it is recommended to only issue a single call to either of these two method.

Reviewer 3: @jasonpaulos Leaving a _suggestion_ for a perceived minor typo.

```suggestion
    If you call the methods :code:`store_into(...)` or :code:`use(...)` multiple times, the computation to determine the value will be repeated each time. For this reason, it is recommended to only issue a single call to either of these two methods.
```

=================================== ====================== ================ =======================================================================================================================================================
PyTeal Type                         ARC-4 Type             Dynamic / Static Description
=================================== ====================== ================ =======================================================================================================================================================
:any:`abi.Transaction`              :code:`txn`            Static           A catch-all for any transaction type
:any:`abi.PaymentTransaction`       :code:`pay`            Static           A payment transaction
:any:`abi.KeyRegisterTransaction`   :code:`keyreg`         Static           A key registration transaction
:any:`abi.AssetConfigTransaction`   :code:`acfg`           Static           An asset configuration transaction
:any:`abi.AssetTransferTransaction` :code:`axfer`          Static           An asset transfer transaction
:any:`abi.AssetFreezeTransaction`   :code:`afrz`           Static           An asset freeze transaction

> :any:`abi.AssetTransferTransaction` :code:`appl`           Static           An application call transaction

Reviewer 3: @jasonpaulos Appears to be a copy-paste typo.

```suggestion
:any:`abi.ApplicationCallTransaction` :code:`appl`           Static           An application call transaction
```

        local state.
        """
        return Seq(
            Assert(payment.get().sender() == sender.address()),
            Assert(payment.get().receiver() == Global.current_application_address()),
            App.localPut(
                sender.address(),
                Bytes("balance"),
                App.localGet(sender.address(), Bytes("balance")) + payment.get().amount(),
            ),
        )

Limitations
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

TODO: explain limitations, such as can't be created directly, used as method return value, or embedded in other types

Subroutines with ABI Types
--------------------------

Subroutines can be created that accept ABI types are arguments and produce ABI types as return values. PyTeal will type check all subroutine calls and ensure that the correct types are being passed to such subroutines and that their return values are used correctly.

There are two different ways to use ABI types in subroutines, depending on whether the return value is an ABI type or a PyTeal :code:`Expr`.

Subroutines that Return Expressions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> If you'd like to create a subroutine that accepts some or all arguments as ABI types, but whose return value is a PyTeal :code:`Expr`, the normal :any:`@Subroutine <Subroutine>` decorator can be used.

Reviewer 3: @jasonpaulos Minor and optional:  I think _normal_ can be removed because the two discussed subroutine decorators have unique names.  

```suggestion
If you'd like to create a subroutine that accepts some or all arguments as ABI types, but whose return value is a PyTeal :code:`Expr`, the :any:`@Subroutine <Subroutine>` decorator can be used.
```

> To indicate the type of each argument, Python type annotations are used. Unlike normal usage of Python type annotations which are ignored at runtime, type annotations for subroutines inform the PyTeal compiler about the inputs and outputs of a subroutine. Changing these values has a direct affect on the code PyTeal generates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To indicate the type of each argument, Python type annotations are used. Unlike normal usage of Python type annotations which are ignored at runtime, type annotations for subroutines inform the PyTeal compiler about the inputs and outputs of a subroutine. Changing these values has a direct effect on the code PyTeal generates.
```

.. code-block:: python

    @ABIReturnSubroutine
    def get_account_status(
        account: abi.Account, *, output: abi.Tuple2[abi.Uint64, abi.Bool]
    ) -> Expr:
        balance = abi.Uint64()
        is_admin = abi.Bool()
        return Seq(
            balance.set(App.localGet(account.address(), Bytes("balance"))),
            is_admin.set(App.localGet(account.address(), Bytes("is_admin"))),
            output.set(balance, is_admin),
        )

    account = abi.make(abi.Address)
    status = abi.make(abi.Tuple2[abi.Uint64, abi.Bool])
    program = Seq(
        account.set(Txn.sender()),
        # NOTE! The return value of get_account_status(account) is actually a ComputedValue[abi.Tuple2[abi.Uint64, abi.Bool]]
        get_account_status(account).store_into(status),
    )

Notice that even though the original :code:`get_account_status` function returns an :code:`Expr` object, the :code:`@ABIReturnSubroutine` decorator automatically transforms the function's return value and the :code:`output` variable into a :code:`ComputedValue`. As a result, callers of this subroutine must work with a :code:`ComputedValue`.

> The only exception to this transformation is if the subroutine has no return value, in which case a :code:`ComputedValue` is unnecessary, so the subroutine will still return an :code:`Expr` to the caller. In this case the :code:`@ABIReturnSubroutine` decorator acts identically the original :code:`@Subroutine` decorator.

Reviewer 3: @jasonpaulos Minor and optional _suggestions_ based on somewhat subjective preferences for shorter sentences and present tense usage.

```suggestion
The only exception to this transformation is if the subroutine has no return value. Without a return value, :code:`ComputedValue` is unnecessary and the subroutine returns an :code:`Expr` to the caller. In this case, the :code:`@ABIReturnSubroutine` decorator acts identically the original :code:`@Subroutine` decorator.
```

    @my_router.method
    def add(a: abi.Uint64, b: abi.Uint64, *, output: abi.Uint64) -> Expr:
        """Adds the two arguments and returns the result.

        If addition will overflow a uint64, this method will fail.
        """
        return output.set(a.get() + b.get())

    @my_router.method(no_op=CallConfig.CALL, opt_in=CallConfig.CALL)
    def addAndStore(a: abi.Uint64, b: abi.Uint64, *, output: abi.Uint64) -> Expr:
        """Adds the two arguments, returns the result, and stores it in the sender's local state.

        If addition will overflow a uint64, this method will fail.

        The sender must be opted into the app. Opt-in can occur during this call.
        """
        return Seq(
            output.set(a.get() + b.get()),
            # store the result in the sender's local state too
            App.localPut(Txn.sender(), Bytes("result", output.get())),
        )

Compiling a Router Program
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now that we know how to add bare app call and method call handlers to a :code:`Router`, the next step is to compile the :code:`Router` into TEAL code.

> The :any:`Router.compile_program` method exists for this purpose. It combines all registered methods and bare app calls into two ASTs, one for the approval program and one for clear state program, then internally calls :any:`compileTeal` to compile these expressions and create TEAL code.

Reviewer 4: Consider emphasizing `approval` and `clear`

> In addition to receiving the approval and clear state programs, the :code:`Router.compile_program` method also returns a :code:`Contract` object `from the Python SDK <https://py-algorand-sdk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algosdk/abi/contract.html#algosdk.abi.contract.Contract>`_. This object represents an `ARC-4 Contract Description <https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0004.md#contract-description>`_, which can be distributed to clients to enable them to call the methods on the contract.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In addition to receiving the approval and clear state programs, the :code:`Router.compile_program` method also returns a `Python SDK <https://py-algorand-sdk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algosdk/abi/contract.html#algosdk.abi.contract.Contract>`  :code:`Contract` object. This object represents an `ARC-4 Contract Description <https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0004.md#contract-description>`_, which can be distributed to clients to enable them to call the methods on the contract.
```

> In addition to receiving the approval and clear state programs, the :code:`Router.compile_program` method also returns a :code:`Contract` object `from the Python SDK <https://py-algorand-sdk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algosdk/abi/contract.html#algosdk.abi.contract.Contract>`_. This object represents an `ARC-4 Contract Description <https://github.com/algorandfoundation/ARCs/blob/main/ARCs/arc-0004.md#contract-description>`_, which can be distributed to clients to enable them to call the methods on the contract.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In addition to receiving the approval and clear state programs, the :code:`Router.compile_program` method also returns a :code:`Contract` object `from the Python SDK <https://py-algorand-sdk.readthedocs.io/en/latest/algosdk/abi/contract.html#algosdk.abi.contract.Contract>`_. This object represents an `ARC-4 Contract Description <https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0004#contract-description>`_, which can be distributed to clients to enable them to call the methods on the contract.
```

suggest repointing to the foundation instead of github

:any:`abi.Application` :code:`application`    Static           Represents an application that the current transaction can access, stored in the :any:`Txn.applications <TxnObject.applications>` array
====================== ====================== ================ =======================================================================================================================================================

These types all inherit from the abstract class :any:`abi.ReferenceType`.

Limitations
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Because References Types have a special meaning, they should not be directly created, and they cannot be assigned a value by a program.

Additionally, Reference Types are only valid in the arguments of a method. They may not appear in a method's return value.

Note that the AVM has `limitations on the maximum number of foreign references <https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/parameter_tables/#smart-contract-constraints>`_ an application call transaction may contain. At the time of writing, these limits are:

* Accounts: 4
* Assets: 8
* Applications: 8
* Sum of Accounts, Assets, and Applications: 8

> Because of this, methods that have a large amount of Reference Type arguments may be impossible to call as intended at runtime.

Reviewer 2: nit: just a stylistic suggestion, would you consider using `warning` or `note` in rst format to emphasize this paragraph?

Author: Good idea, I will wrap that in a warning

:any:`abi.Transaction`                :code:`txn`            Static           A catch-all for any type of transaction
:any:`abi.PaymentTransaction`         :code:`pay`            Static           A payment transaction
:any:`abi.KeyRegisterTransaction`     :code:`keyreg`         Static           A key registration transaction
:any:`abi.AssetConfigTransaction`     :code:`acfg`           Static           An asset configuration transaction
:any:`abi.AssetTransferTransaction`   :code:`axfer`          Static           An asset transfer transaction
:any:`abi.AssetFreezeTransaction`     :code:`afrz`           Static           An asset freeze transaction
:any:`abi.ApplicationCallTransaction` :code:`appl`           Static           An application call transaction
===================================== ====================== ================ =======================================================================================================================================================

Limitations
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> Due to the special meaning of Transaction Types, they cannot be used as the return value of a method. They can be used as method arguments, but only at the top-level. This means that it's not possible to embed a Transaction Type inside a tuple or array.

Reviewer 2: nit: emphasize `they **cannot** be used as the return ...`

.. _abi:

ABI Support
===========

.. warning::
    ABI support is still taking shape and is subject to backwards incompatible changes.
        * Based on feedback, the API and usage patterns are likely to change.
        * For the following use cases, feel encouraged to rely on abstractions. Expect a best-effort attempt to minimize backwards incompatible changes along with a migration path.

            * :any:`ABIReturnSubroutine` usage for ABI Application entry point definition.

            * :any:`Router` usage for defining how to route program invocations.
        * For general purpose :any:`Subroutine` definition usage, use at your own risk. Based on feedback, the API and usage patterns will change more freely and with less effort to provide migration paths.

>     For these reasons, we strongly recommend using :any:`pragma` or the :any:`Pragma` expression to pin the version of PyTeal in your source code.

Reviewer 3: @jasonpaulos Sanity checking:  Is it by-design that the user guide does _not_ provide pragma explanation beyond the API docs?

* I'm asking because we merged https://github.com/algorand/pyteal/pull/429 with the intention to revisit user guide docs here.  And I'm trying to gauge opinion on the topic.
* I'm open to being convinced otherwise, but my starting position is:  The concept is sufficiently important to warrant a 1st class user guide mention.
  * Also flexible:  I can imagine extending https://pyteal.readthedocs.io/en/stable/versions.html or reworking https://pyteal.readthedocs.io/en/stable/compiler_optimization.html to include optimizations + version pragma.

Author: Added documentation to the versions page, please re-open if anything is missing

`ARC-4 <https://arc.algorand.foundation/ARCs/arc-0004>`_ introduces a set of standards that increase the interoperability of smart contracts in the Algorand ecosystem. This set of standards is commonly referred to as Algorand's application binary interface, or ABI.

This page will introduce and explain the relevant concepts necessary to build a PyTeal application that adheres to the ARC-4 ABI standards.

Types
------

The ABI supports a variety of data types whose encodings are standardized.

.. note::
    Be aware that the ABI type system in PyTeal has been designed specifically for the limited use case of describing a program's inputs and outputs. At the time of writing, we **do not recommend** using ABI types in a program's internal storage or computation logic, as the more basic :any:`TealType.uint64` and :any:`TealType.bytes` :any:`Expr` types are far more efficient for these purposes.

> 

Reviewer 5: This q should _not_ block release, just putting it here for consideration

What is the appropriate way to store things that come in as ABI types? for dynamic types there may be a lot of overhead in the encoded version but static types are more efficient. Should we recommend that _if_ you're storing data, it should be a static type and use `encode`?

Author: Yes, I don't see much of a downside for storing encoded static types.

Unless you want to store single integers in local/global state, in which case you need not convert them to bytes anyway.

For the time being I'd like to retain this warning, but perhaps over time we can clarify this point.

    * :any:`abi.Tuple0`: a tuple of zero values, :code:`()`
    * :any:`abi.Tuple1[T1] <abi.Tuple1>`: a tuple of one value, :code:`(T1)`
    * :any:`abi.Tuple2[T1,T2] <abi.Tuple2>`: a tuple of two values, :code:`(T1,T2)`
    * :any:`abi.Tuple3[T1,T2,T3] <abi.Tuple3>`: a tuple of three values, :code:`(T1,T2,T3)`
    * :any:`abi.Tuple4[T1,T2,T3,T4] <abi.Tuple4>`: a tuple of four values, :code:`(T1,T2,T3,T4)`
    * :any:`abi.Tuple5[T1,T2,T3,T4,T5] <abi.Tuple5>`: a tuple of five values, :code:`(T1,T2,T3,T4,T5)`

These ARC-4 types are not yet supported in PyTeal:

* Non-power-of-2 unsigned integers under 64 bits, i.e. :code:`uint24`, :code:`uint48`, :code:`uint56`
* Unsigned integers larger than 64 bits
* Fixed point unsigned integers, i.e. :code:`ufixed<N>x<M>`

Limitations
"""""""""""""""""""""

Due to the nature of their encoding, dynamic container types, i.e. :any:`abi.DynamicArray[T] <abi.DynamicArray>` and :any:`abi.String`, have an implicit limit on the number of elements they may contain. This limit is :code:`2^16 - 1`, or 65535. Do not attempt to store more elements than this in these types.

> 

Reviewer 5: There is a limit on number of bytes the stack can hold implicitly at 4k which I think would get breached before we hit 2^16 elements, worth mentioning?

Author: Great point, I added a sentence to address this

:any:`abi.Account`     :code:`account`        Static           Represents an account that the current transaction can access, stored in the :any:`Txn.accounts <TxnObject.accounts>` array
:any:`abi.Asset`       :code:`asset`          Static           Represents an asset that the current transaction can access, stored in the :any:`Txn.assets <TxnObject.assets>` array
:any:`abi.Application` :code:`application`    Static           Represents an application that the current transaction can access, stored in the :any:`Txn.applications <TxnObject.applications>` array
====================== ====================== ================ =======================================================================================================================================================

These types all inherit from the abstract class :any:`abi.ReferenceType`.

Limitations
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Because References Types have a special meaning, they should not be directly created, and they cannot be assigned a value by a program.

Additionally, Reference Types are only valid in the arguments of a method. They may not appear in a method's return value.

> Note that the AVM has limitations on the maximum number of foreign references an application call transaction may contain. At the time of writing, these limits are:

Reviewer 3: @jasonpaulos Optional:  While it's convenient to list reference limits, I'm concerned it'll grow stale.  How open are you to one of the following alternatives?

* Link to a (or several) Github search(es) helping the user find the current value in `config/consensus.go`.
* Generally pointing the user to `config/consensus.go` to deduce values.

If you'd rather keep as is, then I don't feel strongly enough to pursue further and the thread can be resolved.

Author: Good point. I'm opting to link to https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/parameter_tables/#smart-contract-constraints since it'll be more user-friendly than the actual code

Reviewer 3: @jasonpaulos Re-opening for a final sanity check.  If the PR is in the expected form, then disregard.

From your prior note, I expected the hard-coded values to be removed.  It's unclear to me if you left them deliberately or incidentally.  

If incidental, also consider the same treatment in transaction type limitations (https://github.com/algorand/pyteal/pull/400/files#diff-d5f6d88ad06456a3ba42bcda3171b8d55309a3d87ad250a7e78379a322527d63R510) where max transaction group count is referenced.

Author: I've opted to leave the hard-coded values because I think they give a feel for the order of magnitude of the limits, plus they help illustrate the relationship between the per-field limits and the total reference limit. I hope that saying these values are only current at the time of writing and linking to a more authoritative source will be enough to future-proof this section.

Reviewer 3: @jasonpaulos Got it - thanks for the clarification.  Resolving - I'm open to proceeding as is.

            # (if the creator wishes to immediately opt in).
            opt_in=OnCompleteAction(
                action=opt_in_handler, call_config=CallConfig.ALL
            ),

            # Allow anyone who opted in to close out from the app.
            close_out=OnCompleteAction(
                action=Approve(), call_config=CallConfig.CALL
            ),

            # Only approve update and delete operations if `assert_sender_is_creator` succeeds.
            update_application=OnCompleteAction(
                action=assert_sender_is_creator, call_config=CallConfig.CALL
            ),
            delete_application=OnCompleteAction(
                action=assert_sender_is_creator, call_config=CallConfig.CALL
            ),
        ),
    )

.. note::
    When deciding which :any:`CallConfig` value is appropriate for a bare app call or method, consider the question, should it be valid for someone to create my app with this operation? Most of the time the answer will be no, in which case :any:`CallConfig.CALL` should be used.

Registering Methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. warning::

>     A challenge for any system exposed to the public, including smart contracts, is input validation. At the moment, PyTeal's :any:`Router` class only performs a limited set of input validation. The largest hole in this validation is compound types, i.e. :any:`abi.StaticArray`, :any:`abi.Address`, :any:`abi.DynamicArray`, and :any:`abi.String`.

Reviewer 3: @jasonpaulos Optional:  I think the _warning_ provides good content, but can be more concise + have fewer long sentences.  If you prefer as is, feel welcomed to resolve.

Here's a proposal for slimming down the warning while hopefully retaining its intent.  If you don't like the proposal, feel welcomed to disregard it.

:any:`Router` does _not_ validate compound types (:any:`abi.StaticArray`, :any:`abi.Address`, :any:`abi.DynamicArray`, and :any:`abi.String`).  **We strongly recommend** methods immediately access and validate compound type parameters _before_ persisting arguments for later transactions.

Notes:
* The recommendation applies to recursively defined compound types.
* :any:`abi.Address` is _not_ guaranteed to have exactly 32 bytes.  To defend against unintended behavior, manually verify the length is 32 bytes.

-----

Aside:  Additionally and also optionally, I'd consider adding _compound types_ to an existing section header.  
* That way the warning can refer to the section defining compound types rather than re-enumerating the types. 
* Candidate section:  _Getting Values at Indexes_ can be named something like _Getting Values at Indexes - Compound types_

Author: Thanks for the suggestions, I've adopted a variation on this

    @ABIReturnSubroutine
    def get_account_status(
        account: abi.Address, *, output: abi.Tuple2[abi.Uint64, abi.Bool]
    ) -> Expr:
        balance = abi.Uint64()
        is_admin = abi.Bool()
        return Seq(

>             balance.set(App.localGet(account.get(), Bytes("balance"))),

Reviewer 5: I think this needs to stay an account so that the reference works
